Bayou Sauvage NWR is located entirely in the city limits of New Orleans, Louisiana. The refuge was established in 1990 by president Ronald Reagan to provide opportunities for fish and wildlife oriented recreation under the Emergency Wetland Act of 1986. Bayou Sauvage NWR is the second largest urban refuge in the nation. Bayou Sauvage NWR was formed by the abandoned St. Bernard delta of the Mississippi River and consists of fine silt and various sediments. The refuge consists of 25,000 total acres within a hurricane levee system which helps. There is 13,000 acres of freshwater habitat, 11,000 acres of brackish water, and 200 acres of forested lands on low ridges The refuge is home to numerous wildlife including, great blue herons, white egrets, American alligators, whitetail deers, and 350 various bird species. In addition, the freshwater wetlands are only recharged by rainfall. Therefore during dry periods some areas of the refuge may dry up totally. Introducing brackish water from Lake Pontchartrain may provide a degree of relief, but too much will damage freshwater grasses and other plants.
During Hurricane Katrina in 2005, levees on the south shore of Pontchartrain were damaged by storm surge. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers expanded the levees but altered the refuge's wetland. To restore the wetland, the Corps used sediment pumped from Pontchartrain to create brackish marsh in what was open water in the refuge. The National Guard, for several years now, has dropped thousands of used Christmas trees with their blackhawks into selected spots of the wetland areas. These trees provide extra habitat and reverse the effects of shoreline erosion, ultimately benefiting the people of New Orleans. 
Bayou Sauvage attracts over 80,000 visitors annually (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2018, written comm.). Visitors can participate in recreation such as hiking, fishing, kayaking, boating, bird watching, crabbing, crawfishing, and wildlife observation. Figure 1 displays a map of Bayou Sauvage NWR. For more information, please visit https://www.fws.gov/refuge/bayou_sauvage. 
