Prime Hook NWR is located on the western shore of the Delaware Bay in western-central Delaware. The refuge is just 22 miles southeast of Dover, Delware. The refuge was established in 1963 under the authority of the Migratory Bird Conservation Act for the primary purpose of providing sanctuary habitat for migratory birds. The 10,144 acre refuge is composed of mainly fresh and saltwater marshlands. Additional habitats on the refuge include ponds and managed impoundments as well as swampy and upland woodlands. The marshlands of the refuge are centrally located along the Atlantic Flyway and are an important stopover point for migrating ducks and geese: tens of thousands of snow geese visit the refuge during the fall. Migrating shorebirds such as dunlin, dowitchers, sandpipers, and plovers also use the refuge to feed. The upland forests of the refuge provide habitat to migrating songbirds, such as the unique migrating coastal plain swamp sparrow. In addition to migratory birds, the refuge provides habitat for a variety of mammals including the formerly endangered Delmarva Peninsula Fox Squirrel. The refuge’s name comes from the area’s history: when Dutch settlers arrived in what is now the refuge, they noticed large amounts of purple beach plum plants so they called the area Plum Point or “Priume Hoek” in their language. 
Prime Hook NWR attracts over 86,000 visitors annually (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2018, written comm.). Hunting and fishing are popular activities on the refuge. Anglers can expect to catch fish like largemouth bass and crappie. Whitetail deer, waterfowl, and upland game birds are hunted on the refuge in permitted annual hunts. Visitors can explore the refuge on kayaks or canoes via 15 miles of waterways, or on foot on the refuge’s 4 hiking trails. Birdwatching and wildlife photography are also popular from the roadways that bisect the refuge. A visitor’s center offers environmental education opportunities for kids and adults alike. Figure 1 displays a map of Prime Hook NWR. For more information, please visit https://www.fws.gov/refuge/Prime_Hook/. 
