J.N. Ding Darling NWR is located on Sanibel Island on the Gulf Coast of Florida. The refuge was established in 1945 largely thanks to the efforts of Jay Norwood Darling, a conservationist who urged President Truman to protect the island from development. The purpose of the refuge is to protect the unique habitat of Sanibel Island so it can continue to sustain endangered species as well as migratory birds. The 6,400 acre refuge is part of the largest intact mangrove ecosystem in the United States; in addition to mangrove forests, the refuge contains submerged seagrass beds, cordgrass marshes, and West Indian hardwood hammocks. Almost half of the refuge is designated as a National Wilderness Area. The refuge provides habitat for 245 bird species. The refuge is particularly well known for the “big five” bird species that draw in birders from around the world; these species include the American White Pelican, the Mangrove Cuckoo, the Reddish Egret, the Roseate Spoonbill, and the Yellow-crowned Night Heron. Other charismatic species that call the refuge home include the endangered Loggerhead Sea Turtle, the endangered smalltooth sawfish, and manatees. 
J.N. Ding Darling NWR attracts over 927,900 visitors annually (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2018, written comm.). Visitors can enjoy a wide variety of recreational activities on the refuge. The refuge has a large visitor center and education center where visitors can learn about the habitats and wildlife of the refuge through interpretive exhibits and programs. The refuge has a wildlife drive that visitors can enjoy on their own or via guided tram tour. Multiple hiking trails and observation decks provide locations for visitors to enjoy wildlife observation and photography. Two small craft launch areas provide access for visitors to kayak or paddleboard through the refuge. Saltwater fishing is another popular activity on the refuge. Figure 1 displays a map of J.N. Ding Darling NWR. For more information, please visit https://www.fws.gov/refuge/jn_ding_darling/. 
